GIT And GITHUB

Prerequisites :
1.To work with GIT you must have git account.
2.Install git on your machine and set the path in env vars also.
3.To check git install properly or not use git --version command in cmd prompt.

If you have project which you need to checkin into github repo use below steps

1.Initiate local git repo for that use below command
git init

2.To create connection between local and remote repo of github use below command.
git remote add origin 'githubrepo url'

3.To check the current file status
git status

It will show the file status whether it is commit or not?

4.Add the directory/file in local repo first to do that use below command
git add . or git add 'filename' (if specific file you need to add)

5.To commit the code use below command
git commit -m "add message you want to give"

6.Now we need to push the code to github repo use below command
git push origin "branch name you want to checkin"


Done go to github repo and check code successfully checkin or not.

To push the code you need to either provide username/password when it ask or you can setup the SSH KEY or Token by generating it from your
machine and config in github settings.

To pull the code we dont need any kind of auth.


IMP

When first time you want to pull any remote github repo to local we need to use clone method in following way.

1.Create a folder in your machine
2.Then open cmd prompt from there
3.Type git clone 'githubrepoURL'
4.If anyone has done any changes in the code and you want to fetch the changes in you local repo use 
git pull origin 'branchname'

When you want to create a feature branch from master branch and want to work on new branch use below steps.

1.Go to github create new branch there.
2.Open cmd prompt on your machine and to get the created local branch use 
git pull origin 'createdbranchname'
3.After that use git checkout 'createdbranchname'
4.git branch


1.When you are working on one branch and that branch codde is not checkin yet so you cant switch in between the brnach until and 
unless you commit the code.
2.When you are working on some branch you haven't take the latest code before start, and you also done the changes and now want to checkin
code , but now you have to latest changes and then need to push your changes so either you take the backup of your local repo, take remote
change and then merge your code

or go to your project dir > open cmd > use git stash.

Now pull the latest code form remote repo merge in your repo once done.

Open cmd again > use git stash pop --- you will see your changes again in the repo then commit.



Commands
git status --- to track the files.
git branch --- to see the branch you are pointing
git checkout 'branchname' --- to switch the branch.
git init --- to initiate local git.





